Scripts for Correcting Ionospheric Effects in LOFAR Data
========================================================

Authors:
* David Rafferty
* Bas van der Tol

These scripts, along with the TECFIT and TECSCREEN operations in
[LoSoTo](https://github.com/revoltek/losoto), allow for the semi-automated
derivation and application of ionospheric TEC screens for LOFAR data. The
following scripts are available:
* __ion_peel.py__: Performs peeling to derive direction-dependent phase solutions
* __ion_apply.py__: Applies the TEC screens derived by the TECSCREEN operation in LoSoTo
* __ion_image.py__: Images with (and optionally without) the TEC screen

Peeling to Obtain Direction-dependent Phase Solutions (ion_peel.py)
-------------------------------------------------------------------
The ion_peel.py script takes as input a set of measurement sets at various
frequencies and (possibly) multiple fields and performs directional calibration
that can be used to correct for time- and position-dependent ionospheric
effects. All solutions are copied to a single H5parm file that can be used with
LoSoTo to fit for TEC values and to derive phase screens that may be used to
make ionospheric corrections with the AWimager.

Command-line arguments define the position and radius over which to search for
potential calibrators, the minimum apparent flux for a calibrator, the maximum
size of a calibrator, etc. From these inputs, the script can determine the
optimal set of calibrators to solve for in each band and in each field.  At a
given frequency, only the field in which the calibrator is brightest is used.

All the measurement sets are assumed to be a single directory (defined by the
'indir' option). All results are saved in an output directory (defined by the
'outdir' option).

For more information on the options, run:

    ion_peel.py --help


Applying a TEC Screen (ion_apply.py)
------------------------------------
The ion_apply.py script takes as input a H5parm file with a TEC screen fit
generated by the TECSCREEN operation in LoSoTo. By default, the screen is
exported to all measurement sets in the specified input directory (default is
'.').

For more information on the options, run:

    ion_apply.py --help


Imaging with a TEC Screen (ion_image.py)
----------------------------------------
The ion_image.py script automates the imaging of a dataset, including the
application of a TEC screen. By default, all measurement sets in the specified
input directory are concatenated and imaging together.

For more information on the options, run:

    ion_image.py --help

